README.md, before:

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/HumanCompatibleAI/imitation.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/HumanCompatibleAI/imitation)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/imitation/badge/?version=latest)](https://imitation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/HumanCompatibleAI/imitation/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/HumanCompatibleAI/imitation)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/imitation.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/imitation)

# Imitation Learning Baseline Implementations

This project aims to provide clean implementations of imitation and reward learning algorithms.
Currently, we have implementations of the algorithms below. 'Discrete' and 'Continous' stands for whether the algorithm supports discrete or continuous action/state spaces respectively.

| Algorithm (+ link to paper)                                                                                                       | API Docs                                                                                                                 | Discrete | Continuous |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|------------|
| Behavioral Cloning                                                                                                                | [`algorithms.bc`](https://imitation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/algorithms/bc.html)                                         | ✅        | ✅          |
| [DAgger](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1011.0686.pdf)                                                                                     | [`algorithms.dagger`](https://imitation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/algorithms/dagger.html)                                 | ✅        | ✅          |
| Density-Based Reward Modeling                                                                                                     | [`algorithms.density`](https://imitation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/algorithms/density.html)                               | ✅        | ✅          |
| [Maximum Causal Entropy Inverse Reinforcement Learning](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~bziebart/publications/maximum-causal-entropy.pdf) | [`algorithms.mce_irl`](https://imitation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/algorithms/mce_irl.html)                               | ✅        | ❌          |
| [Adversarial Inverse Reinforcement Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1710.11248)                                                    | [`algoritms.airl`](https://imitation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/algorithms/airl.html)                                      | ✅        | ✅          |
| [Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1606.03476)                                                     | [`algorithms.gail`](https://imitation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/algorithms/gail.html)                                     | ✅        | ✅          |
| [Deep RL from Human Preferences](https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03741)                                                                | [`algorithms.preference_comparisons`](https://imitation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/algorithms/preference_comparisons.html) | ✅        | ✅          |
| [Soft Q Imitation Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1905.11108)                                                                     | [`algorithms.sqil`](https://imitation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/algorithms/sqil.html)                                     | ✅        | ❌          |


You can find [the documentation here](https://imitation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.8+
- (Optional) OpenGL (to render Gym environments)
- (Optional) FFmpeg (to encode videos of renders)

### Installing PyPI release

Installing the PyPI release is the standard way to use `imitation`, and the recommended way for most users.

```
pip install imitation
```

### Install from source

If you like, you can install `imitation` from source to [contribute to the project][contributing] or access the very last features before a stable release. You can do this by cloning the GitHub repository and running the installer directly. First run:
`git clone http://github.com/HumanCompatibleAI/imitation && cd imitation`.

For development mode, then run:

```
pip install -e ".[dev]"
```

This will run `setup.py` in development mode, and install the additional dependencies required for development. For regular use, run instead

```
pip install .
```

Additional extras are available depending on your needs. Namely, `tests` for running the test suite, `docs` for building the documentation, `parallel` for parallelizing the training, and `atari` for including atari environments. The `dev` extra already installs the `tests`, `docs`, and `atari` dependencies automatically, and `tests` installs the `atari` dependencies.

For macOS users, some packages are required to run experiments (see `./experiments/README.md` for details). First, install Homebrew if not available (see [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)). Then, run:

```
brew install coreutils gnu-getopt parallel
```

## CLI Quickstart

We provide several CLI scripts as a front-end to the algorithms implemented in `imitation`. These use [Sacred](https://github.com/idsia/sacred) for configuration and replicability.

From [examples/quickstart.sh:](examples/quickstart.sh)

```bash
# Train PPO agent on pendulum and collect expert demonstrations. Tensorboard logs saved in quickstart/rl/
python -m imitation.scripts.train_rl with pendulum environment.fast policy_evaluation.fast rl.fast fast logging.log_dir=quickstart/rl/

# Train GAIL from demonstrations. Tensorboard logs saved in output/ (default log directory).
python -m imitation.scripts.train_adversarial gail with pendulum environment.fast demonstrations.fast policy_evaluation.fast rl.fast fast demonstrations.path=quickstart/rl/rollouts/final.npz demonstrations.source=local

# Train AIRL from demonstrations. Tensorboard logs saved in output/ (default log directory).
python -m imitation.scripts.train_adversarial airl with pendulum environment.fast demonstrations.fast policy_evaluation.fast rl.fast fast demonstrations.path=quickstart/rl/rollouts/final.npz demonstrations.source=local
```

Tips:

- Remove the "fast" options from the commands above to allow training run to completion.
- `python -m imitation.scripts.train_rl print_config` will list Sacred script options. These configuration options are documented in each script's docstrings.

For more information on how to configure Sacred CLI options, see the [Sacred docs](https://sacred.readthedocs.io/en/stable/).

## Python Interface Quickstart

See [examples/quickstart.py](examples/quickstart.py) for an example script that loads CartPole-v1 demonstrations and trains BC, GAIL, and AIRL models on that data.

### Density reward baseline

We also implement a density-based reward baseline. You can find an [example notebook here](docs/tutorials/7_train_density.ipynb).

# Citations (BibTeX)

```
@misc{gleave2022imitation,
  author = {Gleave, Adam and Taufeeque, Mohammad and Rocamonde, Juan and Jenner, Erik and Wang, Steven H. and Toyer, Sam and Ernestus, Maximilian and Belrose, Nora and Emmons, Scott and Russell, Stuart},
  title = {imitation: Clean Imitation Learning Implementations},
  year = {2022},
  howPublished = {arXiv:2211.11972v1 [cs.LG]},
  archivePrefix = {arXiv},
  eprint = {2211.11972},
  primaryClass = {cs.LG},
  url = {https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.11972},
}
```

# Contributing

See [Contributing to imitation][contributing] for more information.


[contributing]: https://imitation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/development/contributing/index.html

Commit message:

Add more benchmarking documentation (#822)
* Embedd the benchmarking README in the Sphinx documentation.

* Add the benchmark summary from the release to the Sphinx documentation.

* Add link to benchmark results to README.md

* Fix formatting issues in docs/conf.py and improve inline comment.

* Fix typing issue due to new SB3 version.

* Black fixes.

* Improve formatting in benchmarking README.md

README.md, after:

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/HumanCompatibleAI/imitation.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/HumanCompatibleAI/imitation)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/imitation/badge/?version=latest)](https://imitation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/HumanCompatibleAI/imitation/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/HumanCompatibleAI/imitation)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/imitation.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/imitation)

# Imitation Learning Baseline Implementations

This project aims to provide clean implementations of imitation and reward learning algorithms.
Currently, we have implementations of the algorithms below. 'Discrete' and 'Continous' stands for whether the algorithm supports discrete or continuous action/state spaces respectively.

| Algorithm (+ link to paper)                                                                                                       | API Docs                                                                                                                 | Discrete | Continuous |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|------------|
| Behavioral Cloning                                                                                                                | [`algorithms.bc`](https://imitation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/algorithms/bc.html)                                         | ✅        | ✅          |
| [DAgger](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1011.0686.pdf)                                                                                     | [`algorithms.dagger`](https://imitation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/algorithms/dagger.html)                                 | ✅        | ✅          |
| Density-Based Reward Modeling                                                                                                     | [`algorithms.density`](https://imitation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/algorithms/density.html)                               | ✅        | ✅          |
| [Maximum Causal Entropy Inverse Reinforcement Learning](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~bziebart/publications/maximum-causal-entropy.pdf) | [`algorithms.mce_irl`](https://imitation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/algorithms/mce_irl.html)                               | ✅        | ❌          |
| [Adversarial Inverse Reinforcement Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1710.11248)                                                    | [`algoritms.airl`](https://imitation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/algorithms/airl.html)                                      | ✅        | ✅          |
| [Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1606.03476)                                                     | [`algorithms.gail`](https://imitation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/algorithms/gail.html)                                     | ✅        | ✅          |
| [Deep RL from Human Preferences](https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03741)                                                                | [`algorithms.preference_comparisons`](https://imitation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/algorithms/preference_comparisons.html) | ✅        | ✅          |
| [Soft Q Imitation Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1905.11108)                                                                     | [`algorithms.sqil`](https://imitation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/algorithms/sqil.html)                                     | ✅        | ❌          |


You can find [the documentation here](https://imitation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

You can read the latest benchmark results [here](https://imitation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/main-concepts/benchmark_summary.html).

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.8+
- (Optional) OpenGL (to render Gym environments)
- (Optional) FFmpeg (to encode videos of renders)

### Installing PyPI release

Installing the PyPI release is the standard way to use `imitation`, and the recommended way for most users.

```
pip install imitation
```

### Install from source

If you like, you can install `imitation` from source to [contribute to the project][contributing] or access the very last features before a stable release. You can do this by cloning the GitHub repository and running the installer directly. First run:
`git clone http://github.com/HumanCompatibleAI/imitation && cd imitation`.

For development mode, then run:

```
pip install -e ".[dev]"
```

This will run `setup.py` in development mode, and install the additional dependencies required for development. For regular use, run instead

```
pip install .
```

Additional extras are available depending on your needs. Namely, `tests` for running the test suite, `docs` for building the documentation, `parallel` for parallelizing the training, and `atari` for including atari environments. The `dev` extra already installs the `tests`, `docs`, and `atari` dependencies automatically, and `tests` installs the `atari` dependencies.

For macOS users, some packages are required to run experiments (see `./experiments/README.md` for details). First, install Homebrew if not available (see [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)). Then, run:

```
brew install coreutils gnu-getopt parallel
```

## CLI Quickstart

We provide several CLI scripts as a front-end to the algorithms implemented in `imitation`. These use [Sacred](https://github.com/idsia/sacred) for configuration and replicability.

From [examples/quickstart.sh:](examples/quickstart.sh)

```bash
# Train PPO agent on pendulum and collect expert demonstrations. Tensorboard logs saved in quickstart/rl/
python -m imitation.scripts.train_rl with pendulum environment.fast policy_evaluation.fast rl.fast fast logging.log_dir=quickstart/rl/

# Train GAIL from demonstrations. Tensorboard logs saved in output/ (default log directory).
python -m imitation.scripts.train_adversarial gail with pendulum environment.fast demonstrations.fast policy_evaluation.fast rl.fast fast demonstrations.path=quickstart/rl/rollouts/final.npz demonstrations.source=local

# Train AIRL from demonstrations. Tensorboard logs saved in output/ (default log directory).
python -m imitation.scripts.train_adversarial airl with pendulum environment.fast demonstrations.fast policy_evaluation.fast rl.fast fast demonstrations.path=quickstart/rl/rollouts/final.npz demonstrations.source=local
```

Tips:

- Remove the "fast" options from the commands above to allow training run to completion.
- `python -m imitation.scripts.train_rl print_config` will list Sacred script options. These configuration options are documented in each script's docstrings.

For more information on how to configure Sacred CLI options, see the [Sacred docs](https://sacred.readthedocs.io/en/stable/).

## Python Interface Quickstart

See [examples/quickstart.py](examples/quickstart.py) for an example script that loads CartPole-v1 demonstrations and trains BC, GAIL, and AIRL models on that data.

### Density reward baseline

We also implement a density-based reward baseline. You can find an [example notebook here](docs/tutorials/7_train_density.ipynb).

# Citations (BibTeX)

```
@misc{gleave2022imitation,
  author = {Gleave, Adam and Taufeeque, Mohammad and Rocamonde, Juan and Jenner, Erik and Wang, Steven H. and Toyer, Sam and Ernestus, Maximilian and Belrose, Nora and Emmons, Scott and Russell, Stuart},
  title = {imitation: Clean Imitation Learning Implementations},
  year = {2022},
  howPublished = {arXiv:2211.11972v1 [cs.LG]},
  archivePrefix = {arXiv},
  eprint = {2211.11972},
  primaryClass = {cs.LG},
  url = {https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.11972},
}
```

# Contributing

See [Contributing to imitation][contributing] for more information.


[contributing]: https://imitation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/development/contributing/index.html
