docs/tutorials/trajectories.rst, before:

===================
Handle Trajectories
===================

For imitation learning we need trajectories.
Trajectories are sequences of observations and actions and sometimes rewards, which are generated by an agent
interacting with an environment.
They are also called rollouts or episodes.
Some are generated by experts and serve as demonstrations,
others are generated by the agent and serve as training data for a discriminator.
In this library they are stored in a :class:`Trajectory <imitation.data.types.Trajectory>` dataclass:

.. code-block:: python

    @dataclasses.dataclass(frozen=True)
    class Trajectory:
        obs: np.ndarray
        """Observations, shape (trajectory_len + 1, ) + observation_shape."""

        acts: np.ndarray
        """Actions, shape (trajectory_len, ) + action_shape."""

        infos: Optional[np.ndarray]
            """An array of info dicts, shape (trajectory_len, )."""

        terminal: bool
        """Does this trajectory (fragment) end in a terminal state?"""

:class:`TrajectoryWithRew <imitation.data.types.TrajectoryWithRew>` is a subclass of
:class:`Trajectory <imitation.data.types.Trajectory>` and has another
:class:`rews <imitation.data.types.TrajectoryWithRew.rews>` field,
which is an array of rewards of shape `(trajectory_len, )`.

Usually, they are passed around as sequences of trajectories.

Some algorithms do not care about entire trajectories, but only for individual
:class:`Transitions <imitation.data.types.Transitions>` (:func:`flattened <imitation.data.rollout.flatten_trajectories>` trajectories).

Generating Trajectories
-----------------------
To generate trajectories from a given policy, run the following command:

.. code-block:: python

    import numpy as np
    from imitation.data.rollout import rollout

    your_trajectories = rollout(
        your_policy,
        your_env,
        sample_until=make_sample_until(timesteps=1000),
        rng=np.random.default_rng(),
    )

Storing/Loading Trajectories
----------------------------

Trajectories can be stored on disk or uploaded to the HuggingFace Dataset Hub.

This will store the sequence of trajectories into a directory at `your_path` as a HuggingFace Dataset:

.. code-block:: python

    from imitation.data import serialize
    serialize.save(your_path, your_trajectories)

In the same way you can load trajectories from a HuggingFace Dataset:

.. code-block:: python

    from imitation.data import serialize
    your_trajectories = serialize.load(your_path)

Note that some older, now deprecated, trajectory formats are supported by :func:`this loader <imitation.data.serialize.load>`,
but not by the :func:`saver <imitation.data.serialize.save>`.

Commit message:

Add hints on how to find out more about info dicts.

docs/tutorials/trajectories.rst, after:

===================
Handle Trajectories
===================

For imitation learning we need trajectories.
Trajectories are sequences of observations and actions and sometimes rewards, which are generated by an agent
interacting with an environment.
They are also called rollouts or episodes.
Some are generated by experts and serve as demonstrations,
others are generated by the agent and serve as training data for a discriminator.
In this library they are stored in a :class:`Trajectory <imitation.data.types.Trajectory>` dataclass:

.. code-block:: python

    @dataclasses.dataclass(frozen=True)
    class Trajectory:
        obs: np.ndarray
        """Observations, shape (trajectory_len + 1, ) + observation_shape."""

        acts: np.ndarray
        """Actions, shape (trajectory_len, ) + action_shape."""

        infos: Optional[np.ndarray]
            """An array of info dicts, shape (trajectory_len, )."""

        terminal: bool
        """Does this trajectory (fragment) end in a terminal state?"""

The info dictionaries are optional and can contain arbitrary information.
Look at the :class:`Trajectory <imitation.data.types.Trajectory>` class as well as the
`gymnasium documentation <https://gymnasium.farama.org/api/env/#gymnasium.Env.step>`_ for more details.
:class:`TrajectoryWithRew <imitation.data.types.TrajectoryWithRew>` is a subclass of
:class:`Trajectory <imitation.data.types.Trajectory>` and has another
:class:`rews <imitation.data.types.TrajectoryWithRew.rews>` field,
which is an array of rewards of shape `(trajectory_len, )`.

Usually, they are passed around as sequences of trajectories.

Some algorithms do not care about entire trajectories, but only for individual
:class:`Transitions <imitation.data.types.Transitions>` (:func:`flattened <imitation.data.rollout.flatten_trajectories>` trajectories).

Generating Trajectories
-----------------------
To generate trajectories from a given policy, run the following command:

.. code-block:: python

    import numpy as np
    from imitation.data.rollout import rollout

    your_trajectories = rollout(
        your_policy,
        your_env,
        sample_until=make_sample_until(timesteps=1000),
        rng=np.random.default_rng(),
    )

Storing/Loading Trajectories
----------------------------

Trajectories can be stored on disk or uploaded to the HuggingFace Dataset Hub.

This will store the sequence of trajectories into a directory at `your_path` as a HuggingFace Dataset:

.. code-block:: python

    from imitation.data import serialize
    serialize.save(your_path, your_trajectories)

In the same way you can load trajectories from a HuggingFace Dataset:

.. code-block:: python

    from imitation.data import serialize
    your_trajectories = serialize.load(your_path)

Note that some older, now deprecated, trajectory formats are supported by :func:`this loader <imitation.data.serialize.load>`,
but not by the :func:`saver <imitation.data.serialize.save>`.
